#Mom’s Attic Sensor
The **Mom’s Attic Sensor** project is an integrated IoT system for measuring, storing, and displaying temperature and humidity readings from remotely located sensors.

##Introduction
This project uses Arduino and/or ESP8266 micro-controllers to monitor temperature and humidity data in a remote location (*in my case, the attics in my mother’s house*).  Other micro-controllers (*of the same type*) are used to display the data from the remote sensors on small LCD/OLED displays.   When queried, the remote sensor micro-controllers send the data from their current temperature and humidity readings to a simple server.  The queries of the remote sensors occur at an interval specified on this server.

Upon receipt of the data in response to each query, the server stores received data in a relational database (*MySQL in this case*).  The server makes the data from each query available through webpage.  This webpage displays the name, location, most recent reading from each remote sensor, and the time each reading was received.  As new queries are sent, the webpage is updated as soon as the return data is received, parsed, and stored by the server.  The webpage also displays the last time each remote sensor was queried, whether the last query was successful, the current date & time, the query interval, the countdown until the next set of queries, and the current status of each sensor.  In addition, the hosted webpage will also provide a login which provides access to a secure interface that allows the user to request an out-of-sync query or to change the query interval.

After all query responses have been received, the server also creates a text stream for display on other micro-controllers which are equipped with small LCD/OLED displays (*based on the SSD1306 OLED display family*).  Once created, this text stream is pushed to the display micro-controllers which, once received, causes them to replace the old data on their display(s) with the newly received data.  Depending on the size of their displays, some of these display micro-controllers may have to limit the data they can display or they may have to scroll through all the data.  The server is responsible for properly creating and sending instructions for how the displays should show the data.

In the future, the secure interface will also allow for the addition of new sensor and display micro-controllers, as well as the removal of existing sensor and display micro-controllers.  Beyond these future additions, the secure interface will also eventually allow for the setup of alarms for high/low humidity or temperature values, as well as e-mail addresses and text messages (*SMS*) for receiving alarms and daily summaries. 
